Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much. Okay, let's go. Hi
everyone. Today is Tuesday, January the
20th, and this is the Moneyball Morning
Report for the Benzinga Pro platform. My
name is Amarie Band and we have charts
by Trendpider and Gamma Flows by
Menthther Q. So what are we staring down
here? Looking at the daily, we begin
with the E- Mini S&P. We can see that
the sharp trend line upward was broken
on Monday and today we have a
continuation downward flow. The next
line is a little bit like this. This one
that's much lower. And we've got this
big pocket that spent a couple of days
below here and then recovered. So, as it
sits, we could see some downward flow
that more than likely bounces, but where
it bounces to and stalls out is going to
be very important. Remember, topping is
a little bit of a process. And so, we've
been sitting in this range for a while,
right? If we move it all the way to the
monthly,
we can see that what the chart's been
doing is spending the last 4 months in
this range. And that is really important
for us to consider, right? Gamma flows
6,800
for the put wall
and 7,100 for the call wall. All right,
let's just jump right in to the price
action formation and let's see what we
did. Now, last night a bit of a
catastrophe um on market kickoff because
I did not have audio for bit. Somehow
that box had gotten itself unchecked.
Um so onward upward first 30 minutes of
the day I talked about listen let's take
a look at the day before that was Monday
and I said hey if we break down that
failed retest is going to give us
continuation but at the breakdown we get
the first short it comes back into the
support zone
from the day before and then finally
collapses. So, here's what we're staring
down today.
As long as we stay below 6911,
we've got ourselves downward action
easily. Sellers in control. We've
started correcting some inventory here
as the morning continues. So, we could
have ourselves a test at 6890
or so.
That's also a region that says if we
fail it there, we've got continuation.
But clearly, as long as we stay below
6911, we've got shorting action. That
shorting action takes us into the zero
DTE put wall, which we just bounced off
of. That number is 6850. The big foot
wall below is 6,800. There are some
clear supply, excuse me, demand zones
sitting in the region.
It feels pretty heavy. On top of that,
we know option flow is geared slightly
bearish.
It's hedging really. It's not all out
bearish. So, they're hedging for
downside risk because they have a lot of
bullish positions sitting in play. All
right. So levels to watch
6850 put wall below that continu
continuation to 6,800 below 6890
potential resistance and the big wall of
thou shalt not pass if the traders that
are bearish stay in charge. That's 6911.
Above 6930 we enter the gap that was
created on Monday. That gap takes us
into
6975.
I'm going to put also an alert at this
area.
And that is 6932.
Filling of the gap is going to be pretty
important.
Oh, isn't that interesting?
Yeah, let's do it. We'll put an alert
there. Maybe it doesn't fill today.
The world feels a little bit bearish,
but that's because I've been reading the
news.
All right. Um,
the news sort of skews everything that
our mind might see. Okay. You can see
it's broken just like we can see in the
ES. This is the daily chart. I'm going
to remove all the annotations. Start the
week fresh.
The bigger
picture event for trend line formation
looks like this to me from all the way
down here in September where the when
the this particular contract just
started trading. You can see that we've
broken the ledge. We had a steep ledge
of
pressure from Monday's breakdown and so
far no strength to hold it. Call wall
way up here at 26,000. That call well
has been there for weeks, weeks and
weeks and weeks. It has not shifted.
Foot wall 25,000
looks like.
Make sure we have those lines there for
us.
Let's uh let's take a look at the
monthly. See what's going on here. Same
thing. 1 2 3 4. It's really retracing
October, which was a monster month. And
now it's trying to sit in these spaces.
So clearly the loss of 25,000 is going
to be a fairly important event if we do
not recover it. Coming into the 30
minute, here are the same lines we were
discussing. 30 minute low of Monday,
30 minute high
of Monday
support zone. So, let's call these
numbers out once I get them in play.
30 minute low of Monday is really going
to tell us what's going on. My thought
is as long as we stay below this 25,400
area, the sellers stay in charge.
Right now, we've got a reflexive bounce
that is just above the put wall. The 0DT
put wall is well above us at 25,600.
So, it's broken through all of that. The
point of control and the VWAP are almost
the same number right now. Old
resistance, new support. Looks like
25,660.
I'm not sure we fill this gap
today. The VIX is set to expire
um this week. And when the VIX expires
after the monthly expiration, we do tend
to have ourselves quite a fairly big
wiggle in price action. So, um, let's
watch for that. Suffice to say, losing
this 25,000 area is going to be very
important. And
recapturing the zero DTE at 25,600
also pretty important. But we could
bounce above that 600 into the 650 area
and then completely collapse again. The
line in the sand that keeps
uh that sends us into the gap is going
to be 25,472.
What's the trade formation telling most
of us here staring this down? We can see
that bounces are sells, but the dips are
certainly buying, right? We just need to
let them stabilize and see if it can
hold and we can recover. If we cannot
recover,
this would be a sea change event because
normally we just simply have been buying
the dip. Couple of down days, whatever,
and then we're off to the races again.
If that changes, we'll have more
downward flow. And so we have to be very
conscious of that.
Let's take a look at the YM.
So if we take a look at the YM
and we look at the monthly,
this is very interesting. Now
remember where foreign divestment first
appears in the US market is in the Dow.
And so it's a very important index even
though
even though Jack hates it. Um it's a
very very important index and this is
still trending higher
but what we do notice is that the tops
are getting sold. The bottoms are still
holding but these wicks tell us that
there is significant selling pressure at
the top of the formation. Look at how
many positive months this chart has had.
1 2
3 4 five 6 7
Seven of the last nine months have been
green for this um instrument. It's been
very strong going through the daily
formation. We can see that
it also has broken its ledge, but it's a
bit more jagged, right?
It's holding that region. That's that's
very interesting. That suggests to me
that there still could be a fair bounce
zone sitting in this environment.
All right, let's go to the 30 minute
here very quickly.
That's the number that we want to watch.
48,900.
Wow.
As long as we stay below 49,000,
there's bearish formation here. But on
the bigger time frames, this is a very
very strong potential buy zone. So
that's that's very very interesting.
We'll need to watch that for the Dow.
That number 49,000 going to be a line in
the sand. Monday's 30 minute candlestick
high
49,320
or so. That will put us in the gap. The
point of control 49,474
the excuse me that was the VW 49,600
point of control 49,468
is the VW.
Yeah, that's interesting. It's very,
very interesting. If this were to be a
measured move, let's take a look.
This is a clear inventory accumulation
event. Notice the break. That's the
first break of its kind since the
beginning of the year. So, it's not
trivial.
First step 48,640
would be the line in the sand below.
And then
for the measured move 48,200.
We know that the line for a big break is
at 48,000.
So let's
We can't create an alert here. That's
interesting.
Let's see if we can do it here on the 30
minute.
Ah, that's bizarre. Okay, maybe it's
because I had it I made it on the
monthly.
That might be why.
So, that's what we're staring down. Lot
of demand sitting down here in the YM.
It's pretty interesting. Let's take a
look at the RTY.
Let's go to the big picture.
Very big picture on the monthly
formation. Same sort of thing. This
thing has been in breakout for a hot
minute.
Sector rotation literally began in this
chart in the month of May. We are now at
a 2x
No, no, that's one and a half.
Yeah,
the one and a half marker is at 2720.
That's going to be the line to watch in
my mind. This one has not broken down.
Trending pretty nicely.
Looks fairly solid. It's got a lot of
room to run. baseline support
26,020.
That's the number to watch. Let's go
down to the 30 minute. It's got the same
gap down.
26,000. 2620.
Sorry, my friends. 2620,
not 26,000.
And the put wall below the put wall. Put
wall is sitting at 2675.
We broke that down. That's going to be
the line in the sand for the sellers. As
long as they can keep selling pressure
on and they don't recover this area at
2675,
this chart is going to continue bearish.
But this chart and the Dow are very
bullish. Whereas the E, not very
bullish, more bullish
and the ES and the ENQ are not. So very
interesting formations for us to watch.
Very interesting.
Let's take a look at Bitcoin.
Bitcoin's in a rotation. Let's uh remove
all the annotations.
We start fresh. We can see still a lot
of upward flow from the monthly, right?
Let's take a look at the daily chart.
daily chart still has this flag pattern
sitting on it,
right?
Still has a flag pattern. So, it's still
trending up, trying to hang on to upward
flow.
Sort of collapsed um at the
this is an important gamma line at the
98,000 area.
That's a pretty big run all the way from
79, right? November the 19th to now. So,
that's a pretty good piece of motion.
The problem is still looks a little bit
like a flag pattern, right? Here are two
things to watch. It's broken this trend
line that gave it downward pressure. So,
now it's trying to recover. Put wall
80,000.
The call wall is sitting right at this
important line at
95,000
and the chart is
really trying
the traders are really trying to get up
over this number 95,000. So let's dig
in.
Here's our 95,000.
until they recover 95,000. The sellers
are in charge. This one broke down on
Monday hard, right? The 30 minute low of
last night when we began trading 92,235.
That was the line in the sand for me.
The break below there gave us bullish
pressure.
So, as long as we stayed below 92,000,
we've got that again. Big demand zone
here. They're fighting at the 91,000
90,500.
I think it's really closer to 91,000,
but we'll leave it there. 90,760.
That's the support floor. If we lose
that, we've got more downward action. A
lot of demand sitting at these 86 to
89 to 87, right? 89,000 to 87,000.
That's what we're staring down.
Let's see what I do.
I mean, I think it's bearish.
Little bit of a mixed bag. They are
trying to recover,
but it's pretty tricky until we breach
92,000 or we start building a base like
this right over here that it looks the
same. Could you try it at 90?
Absolutely. Could you try the long at
90? Yes.
demand zones.
Um
90,000
look pretty good, right? But still
that's
1,000 points of risk, 700 points of
risk. I would it would be delightful if
it came down into this 90,000 area and
began to base. If you're a buyer, that's
what would look very attractive
in terms of of positioning. So that
looks really, really good.
tremendous amount of demand sitting at
this 88,000 878.
So
we could watch for that, right? Watch
for that. Some people are saying, "Hey,
listen. This is the beginning of a head
and shoulders pattern." I don't like
head and shoulders patterns. I I think
they're a bit obtuse, but people love
them. What I am seeing is inventory
accumulation
really
this look below and fail area just shook
out all these traders who wanted to be
long.
So the range to me looks like about
86,000 to 90,000. There's a $4,000
pocket right here of accumulation. And
so if they've got all this accumulating
and they do the measured move up.
Let's see what that does. Clone.
And then if we clone it again, it looks
like about half of that event is there.
Oh no, it's one one. So
one, two, 3x. That's what we're staring
down. Holy cow. That is
that's pretty extraordinary. All right,
so we can see what's going on here.
There's a measured move up and now
they're rotating. They have to hold this
90,000 if they want to defend
uh a fall back to 86. Otherwise, down
she goes. All right. Um
oil
Oil's a bit of a mishmash.
Geopolitically, oil can be
very volatile if things look a bit
crazy.
But we can see on the monthly chart,
what we have is a falling wedge.
See this?
The trend lines are certainly not
uh equidistant. a lot of support sitting
right around
Wow. sitting right around 50. Uh, you
know, 50 is a pretty good buy zone. Um,
wow. It's if this fails, it is going to
be ugly. I'm not quite sure why it would
fail,
but
we could see some pretty low oil prices
if that does not hold. Let's take a look
at the daily. It's pretty much a mosh
bit in here. Um,
but the range tells us $56.
to $62 is where we're sitting and we're
right in the middle of it. Put wall 55,
call 70. Okay, that's big folks.
That's hedging for something
geopolitical.
That's a very big move for the call
wall. Very big.
I don't know if it's the Iran thing,
you know,
God bless those people. They've just I
have so many friends that are Iranian
and their government is just
Anyways, um
we're breaking out of this downward
wedge uh this channel event. We're
breaking out and up. So, it's holding
that 70 is a big fat deal. That is
really a big deal. Holding the ledge
above
58 is going to give us bullish action.
Let's see what we're staring down right
now.
Yeah, we've got a floor for the day.
Support zone 5870. We lose that. We've
got some more downward pressure. We
should should should could easily
break down and then recover. So, you
want to watch for the recovery of that
line if it does occur. If not, it heads
to $58 below.
If we're taking a look at where supply
is sitting, clearly at 60, we've got a
ton of action, but any news could blow
this off of the top. My thought would be
the breakaway above $60.35,
$6040.
I think that run through is going to
give us more aggressive buying into
potentially some anchor VWAP 61.22.
The next supply zone is up there at 62.
And as we know, that's the top of the
range for the price action over uh the
short-term
clutter that we've had. We've been
building volume for 1 2 3. This is the
fourth day sitting in that range. If we
do a measured move here [snorts]
upward,
it gives us 6150.
downward, it gives us 5723.
And of course, you can see that upward
flow
again
into 63
or so, right? So, it's about, you know,
a little bit over a dollar wide, but it
could really start to move. All right.
Last night, we played net gas.
It gave us um
a pretty solid bounce off of the floor,
right? Price action is really pretty
terrible here, but NASA should build
upward pressure.
Wow. The call wall
is down here at $4.
Why does this look weird?
There we go. This is what we're staring
down. All right. So, here's the break of
the formation. The put wall is $3.
Lots of supply above us. fair bit of
demand below us, but
it had a nice bounce pattern, gave us a
long and then
uh
is now double topping. And so what do we
have here? A move above 302
gives us more upside pressure. This
one's going to be very volatile. Watch
the weather. You got a lot of solar
flares today,
particularly a lot of magnetic
interference in the skies, but old
resistance is support. So, between $2.90
and $3, we've got some nice upward flow.
This chart is looking fairly good to
trade. All right. Uh, silver
Silver breaking out again. Had a big
upward move. Let's go to the daily.
Let's uh delete all the annotations.
Silver starting a new week. It is it's
moving a little bit differently than um
gold. It's this is absolutely parabolic.
Still expanding in range.
Put wall 7830,
call wall
85,
and max gamma events
95. That's very interesting, right? So,
let's let's go into the daily and see
what it's been doing. 1 2 3 4 5 days,
but it's finally broken out above this
93 area.
$93818.
The real floor right now in my mind is
$90. If the traders lose $90, I think
there's a $4 clip to the downside to 86
and then to 82. Do I think that's going
to happen? I think the the traders would
love to see 100 here. I think they're
just trying to push the price action to
the north. 30-inut formations in the
overnight
show a breakout above 94,700.
Low of the 30-inut candlestick
93,800.
So, as long as we stay above these
levels, I still believe that 93 even is
uh a stronger support zone. But I see a
ton of
demand right there at $9240.
We got to watch that. As long as we stay
above $94.74,
this chart is in
big upside pressure still. What's the
measured move? Let's look at it. To me,
it appears clear. We've got a high here
and then a high here that breaks and
then holds. So clear on the bottom, a
little sticky on the top, right? Might
be a few pennies off there, but
let's clone it to the upside. If you
clone it to the upside, $9647.
Next line in the sand.
And then we'll clone it up one more
time.
$98.30. Looks like it's going to be a
slow grind to it to to 100 if it happens
to do that. Right.
Also another geopolitical event
particularly but we lose the zone. We
can see that 90 is a pretty fair big fat
round number also a big gamma line from
menthq. So we'll be watching those two
edges but dips certainly or buy zones
just let the chart come to you. Let just
let it come to you.
Let's go to the gold futures
also breaking out. Let's take a look at
the monthly chart here.
Still on a rocket ship. Call wall is
4,800.
Put wall 4,000. Wow. $800 width. That's
crazy. All right. The daily chart still
shows by the dip. It's very strong.
Very, very strong.
Oh, for heaven's sakes.
Still solid upward trend. Actually has
broken through it. We have a pretty
interesting inventory accumulation event
between 4662. Oh, we know this number.
We know these numbers. 4600 to 4660.
That's what we're staring down on the
daily. Let's see it on the 30 minute.
See if we can find it.
Looks like it's actually
4600 even, right? So, we're going to put
an alert there.
Then we had a $35. No, that is 50. Yeah,
we had $50 of accumulation as it were.
Maybe even a little bit more. $60 and
then it breaks away. So 60. Wow, look at
this measured move. This is going to be
a doozy. Look at this.
Right. So we clone it up once. It takes
us to this resistance area. We do it one
more time,
it takes us to 4770. So that's the next
target we're staring down. We are well
over the upper edges of uh a breakout
formation, but 671
is a pretty nice retest zone. I don't
know if we're going to get it to be
honest. I really don't. We could easily
stay above 4730.
That would be the first place you might
consider a buy zone. 4737.
Let's create an alert there.
And then we know the measured move. Dips
are clearly buy zones. Clearly, we've
got price action holding. We've got the
call wall again 4,800
and the put wall
um the zerodt put wall is at 4500. So,
we've got some good things to look at.
Finally, let's take a look at SPY
as I talk for way too long. SPY lifting
off of its edge.
You know, we did not trade on Monday
here with SPY. And so, now it gapped
down into the put wall at 680. The call
wall is way up here at 694.
Price action trying to hold, right?
Let's go to a monthly chart.
This looks a lot like the ES four months
in a row just holding on to a spec
specific level.
So it does look very very similar.
It did break
the technical formation
for this line.
Um, let's see what we can do here.
One, two, three, four.
Yeah, look. We've got a few touches
right here. Also a pretty solid bounce
zone right where we sit at 680. So, you
know, that could be your floor. 680.
It loses 680.
We've got a dollar to 690 and another
bounce. Could we have a bottoming
formation here or just buy the dip? This
is the thing we have to be concerned
about. If it's just by the dip, it's
going to chase through everything. So
really, the buyers are on alert. They've
been told, "Hey, listen. You better get
this up or the sellers are going to step
on your neck." Okay? So, let's remove
this alert, but then let's keep the same
alert at 687.
That would be where the chart would go
first. There is
a gamma line at 685
and another one at 68350.
Okay,
we can stair step our way up. Here's the
thing, folks. Just watch this. As long
as you make higher lows
and higher highs, you're going to have
yourself upward rotation, right? If it
starts dipping, you can zoom out and go,
"Well, wait a second. Is my 1 hour or my
1 hour moving up?" Well, yeah, they are.
My four hours moving up? Yeah, they are.
Right off the open of this edge. And
that's really what we want to look at
the open of the chart here where it
begins to start printing. And to me,
that seems pretty important. That $680.
If we get a chance that it comes in
here, let's watch to see it bounce. If
it holds the bounce, then we continue.
If we think it's going to hold the
bounce and we buy it at 681 and loses
680, you know, we got a little bit of a
squishy action here, but I think you
would cut and run, right? So, a lot of
things to watch here in the near term.
Okay, everyone, take care. That's it.
I'll see you on the streams.